When Convolutional Neural Networks are trained on object recognition, they develop a representation of the image that makes object information increasingly explicit along the processing hierarchy.8 Therefore, along the processing hierarchy of the network, the input image is transformed into representations that increasingly care about the actual content of the image compared to its detailed pixel values.

We can directly visualise the information each layer contains about the input image by reconstructing the image only from the feature maps in that layer. Higher layers in the network capture the high-level content in terms of objects and their arrangement in the input image but do not constrain the exact pixel values of the reconstruction.

The key finding of this paper is that the representations of content and style in the Convolutional Neural Network are separable. That is, we can manipulate both representations independently to produce new, perceptually meaningful images. 

Of course, image content and style cannot be completely disentangled. When synthesising an image that combines the content of one image with the style of another, there usually does not exist an image that perfectly matches both constraints at the same time. However, the loss function we minimise during image synthesis contains two terms for content and style
respectively, that are well separated (see Methods). We can therefore smoothly regulate the emphasis on either reconstructing the content or the style (Fig 3, along the columns). A strong emphasis on style will result in images that match the appearance of the artwork, effectively giving a texturised version of it, but hardly show any of the photograph’s content (Fig 3, first column). When placing strong emphasis on content, one can clearly identify the photograph, but the style of the painting is not as well-matched (Fig 3, last column). For a specific pair of source images one can adjust the trade-off between content and style to create visually appealing images.